# CS-360

For this course, I was required to develop a mobile app based on one of three options. I decided to choose the Weight Tracking app option. This app would allow users to log in or create a personal account, set a goal weight they want to reach, input and record their daily weight, and allow users to set up mobile notifications for when they meet their goal weight. The login data, goal weights, and daily weights were also required to be stored into a database with three included tables. 

The screens that were required for this app were a log-in/ registration screen, a page to set goal weight, a main home page, a page for recording daily weights, and finally a settings page for enabling SMS notifications. To make sure that the UI was very user centered, I made sure to keep each page very uniform with buttons, banners and text keeping the same color and format. The pages were also formatted in a grid style for organization and kept simple. These design choices made sure that each page wasnt too crowded or confusing for users to use. The features required for each page varied but overall I implemented multiple buttons for swapping pages or submitting data to the app, editText boxes for users to input data, and a table on the main home page to display daily weight data to the user.

When I started development on this app, the main strategy I used was breaking up the requirements and needs into multiple steps. This helped me organize the process of development for each page of the app as well as helped me organize each step based on difficulty or priority. By breaking down the app like this, not only did it help guide my focus, but it also made it easier to debug as I wasnt coding in giant chunks and focusing on one section at a time. Strategies like the one used for this project can be used in the future because it is adaptable for any type of project with requirements or user needs. All that needs to be done is break down either into simple, measurable goals that can be organized for the development pipeline.

I made sure that my code was functional by testing each page in a android emulator each time that I added a new feature or method to the page. This helped me make sure that each new feature I added was working first before I moved onto the next step in development. It also helped me catch any bugs or errors earlier on in devlopment rather than finding them last minute before the project was due. This is a very important process because as I stated, if I didn't do this process many bugs or errors could have been left for very late in development. This could have caused delays to the release of the app in the real world or in this case, have caused the project to be submitted later than the deadline. While you can never catch every bug before the final build, it is important to catch and fix any bugs that happen as you develop rather than leave them all for the end of the development pipeline.

The major challenge that I had when it came to full app design and development was creating the functionality for SMS function to be allowed by the user. This aspect of android development was new to me and very confusing even with help from the official documentation. To innovate this process in the settings page, I created a main button that allowed the app if pressed by the user to bring up the SMS permissions prompt. If the user allowed the prompt, then when the user meets their goal weight on a daily weight submission, the app would message them. However, if the user denied permission to use SMS, the app would still work normally just without the SMS notification for goal weights being met.

I feel that I was particularly successful when creating the main table for displaying daily weight data to the user. I had created the uniform design of each entry in a separate file that I then applied to the home page. This made it so each entry in the scrollable list included a visible date and weight respectivly. The entries could also be edited easily by users by simply tapping on the entry. This would take users to a different page to edit the specific entry where after submitting the change, would update the table and then the entry in the visable list. 
